==================================================
                      speed                       
==================================================
[noun] The rate at which someone or something moves or operates or is able to move or operate.
ex:
 ‘we turned on to the runway and began to gather speed’
ex:
 ‘an engine running at full speed’
ex:
count noun ‘the car has a top speed of 147 mph’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘That's enough to catapult it to 60 mph in 10.1 seconds and on to a top speed of 113 mph.’
 ‘With a top speed of around 70 mph, Karen's boat was the first to go out and took about 15 minutes to negotiate the dock's L-shaped course.’
 ‘This results in a top speed of 104 mph and the dash from 0-62 is covered in 11.08 seconds.’
 ‘Mark has reached a top speed of 325 mph before he deploys a parachute at 3,000 ft above the ground.’
 ‘Officers said the top speed was 146 mph - a record in the region.’
 ‘It's said that London traffic moves at an average speed of 11 mph, but pedestrian traffic can't be far behind.’
 ‘Hitting a top speed of only 35 mph - half that of today's fire engines - the vehicles have no radio, but are likely to have a police escort.’
 ‘It has more room for paramedics to work and has a top speed of 155 mph.’
 ‘The plane, with a top speed of just 30 mph crashed at least once in trials but flew on other occasions.’
 ‘The car, which runs on motorcycle tyres, can still manage 40 miles to the gallon, although its top speed is only 45 mph.’
 ‘Its operationally loaded top speed is rated around 38 nautical miles per hour.’
 ‘Maria peaked late on Monday as a Category 3 hurricane with top wind speeds at 115 mph.’
 ‘And the 67 year old bachelor told a court that he certainly hadn't been stopped for speeding, because the vehicle had a top speed of just 15 mph.’
 ‘But even the extra weight failed to dent the 330 horsepower output, providing a top speed of 144 mph.’
 ‘Now the car, with a top speed of 200 mph, is for sale as the main asset of the firm, which went into liquidation.’
 ‘‘I am well pleased with that,’ said Weir, who hit a top speed of 21 mph in the last 100m.’
 ‘Able to reach speeds of 60 mph for a short time, it is the second-fastest land animal on earth; only the cheetah is faster.’
 ‘It does a reasonably good job of this, especially when you consider that there is a broad range of craft in the game, most of which differ in turn rates and top speeds.’
 ‘It also has mirrors under the bonnet to give a double effect to the engine and reaches top speeds of 145 mph.’
 ‘Everyone began moving at their top speed out of the dungeon and through the halls.’
1.1
Rapidity of movement or action.
ex:
 ‘the accident was due to excessive speed’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘The web implants were fairly simple to master, and significantly increased speed of movement underwater.’
 ‘Your muscle fibres will be more receptive to growth and reaction time will increase, thus increasing speed and movement.’
 ‘The accident happened due to excessive speed, contributed to by the condition of the near side rear tyre.’
 ‘He said the ‘unfortunate’ accident was due to excessive speed and the torrential rain.’
 ‘PC Clark said excessive speed and the fact he was two-and-a-half times over the drink-drive limit were the primary factors behind the smash.’
 ‘Knowing how and when to release these joints is critical to facility, ease of movement and speed.’
 ‘His movements returned to normal speed, and he dashed toward Abaddon.’
 ‘He emphasised that there was still much work to be done in reducing speeds even further and in changing attitudes towards excessive and inappropriate speed.’
 ‘In Florence he met the Italian Futurists, yet, unlike them, he was less interested in speed and movement than in the effects of colour and light in his work.’
 ‘It seems the children quickly appreciated their own limitations and adapted their speed and movements to their abilities.’
 ‘It was not caused by the weight of concrete in the wagons, the bridge structure, vandalism on the line, or excessive train speed.’
 ‘She pointed out that excessive speed, improper overtaking and unexpected events were huge contributory factors.’
 ‘A double-page album conveys all the panic, speed, ferocity, movement and verve of the hunt.’
 ‘He gave a low chuckle before, in a sudden movement and with surprising speed, he kicked me across the face.’
 ‘We have been told by the police it would appear the vehicle was being driven at excessive speed.’
 ‘I'm learning speed and explosive movements, and in the past six months, I've been doing yoga for flexibility.’
 ‘At times in the first half the All Ireland champions' movement and speed of execution was awesome and Kildare did well to just hang in there.’
 ‘Loss of blood had sapped his movements of speed, but he still felt refreshed.’
 ‘‘The cause of this collision is due to excessive speed,’ PC Cox said.’
 ‘Five of these collisions were caused by alcohol or drugs resulting in six deaths and two collisions were caused by excessive speed resulting in two deaths.’
1.2
The rate at which something happens or is done.
ex:
 ‘they were bemused by the speed of events’
ex:
 ‘the course is delivered on CDROM so students can progress at their own speed’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Starting this season Olga and I work twice a week on stroking exercises, which has really helped the speed in my programs and my overall ice coverage.’
 ‘It may also surprise you to learn that the closing speed at which aircraft collide is typically relatively slow.’
 ‘Qualifying and practice speeds show that Dodge has found something that gives the Intrepids an edge.’
 ‘Our results also suggest that clonal interference may not have a large effect on the speed of adaptation.’
 ‘Survivors of Australia's bushfires told over the weekend of their mounting surprise, and then panic, at the sheer scale and speed of the unfolding disaster.’
 ‘Mansfield Park has seen such an exodus of players during the summer that the turnstiles must have been rotating at the speed of a carnival ride.’
 ‘The speed with which the 76-year-old tycoon has moved has staggered most observers.’
 ‘Regulate the speed, remembering that the normal speed for projection is 16 pictures per second.’
 ‘The speed with which Bush moved to impose this ban on aid is also significant.’
 ‘Up until QuantiSpeed was introduced, many users were accustomed to rating the speed of a computer by its raw MHz number.’
 ‘I just want to bring you up to speed.’
 ‘Weight deals specifically with speed and how much of a burden the character is on their craft, which can affect its speed.’
 ‘This may impact the overall speed of your local LAN.’
 ‘But high prices in major cities are curbing the speed of the movement of workers.’
 ‘As your speed rises the engine joins in, but so seamlessly that you will struggle to identify the moment it happens.’
 ‘Space and time both turn out to be relative, measurements of length and intervals of time turn out to depend on the relative speeds of the objects in question.’
 ‘Paraffin will get you in the ballpark, but low fluoro will get you more speed.’
 ‘The second tactic is rather more controversial - the use of part numbers performance ratings to suggest a higher clock speed than is actually the case.’
 ‘At the sort of speed you should have been travelling this collision would have been wholly avoidable.’
 ‘Everyone goes about doing this at his or her own speed.’
[verb] Move quickly.
ex:
 ‘I got into the car and home we sped’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Banking quickly, Jonathan sped away with Kyle in hot pursuit.’
 ‘I quickly pushed myself and sped to catch up to her, but there were too many people and I had to walk.’
 ‘We quickly sped away from Fremont and into industrial no man's land.’
 ‘I stepped out of the truck and his tires screeched as he quickly sped off.’
 ‘She screamed, throwing her groceries in the air, and the four of us burst into laughter as Adam quickly sped out of the parking lot.’
 ‘Then she quickly got dressed and sped out the door when she realized she was going to be late for her appointments.’
 ‘The girl sped quickly away, obviously an old pro as a bike rider.’
 ‘They quickly sped ahead to the front of the group, going extremely fast and swerving near mailboxes and cars.’
 ‘I rambled on to myself and quickly sped out of the living room that threatened to suffocate me.’
 ‘The battle had been over so quickly because he had sped towards Arthur like an arrow from a bow, and it had been all she could do to keep up with him!’
 ‘Taking no time to evaluate her own injuries, Zoe quickly sped down the road and took a wide turn down another street.’
 ‘Darcy watched sadly as Jeremy backed out quickly and sped down the road.’
 ‘If our troops can speed quickly through Iraq and deal with this monster it stands to reason that his own people must applaud our efforts.’
 ‘The elevator quickly sped off towards the main cargo area of the starship.’
 ‘I glanced towards the car, trying to see who the driver was, but they sped off too quickly.’
 ‘Nick quickly sped backwards, looking at the two shadows in front of him.’
 ‘He chuckled as he sped quickly away after yelling that he would meet her at the firearms shop in east LA.’
 ‘He sped home and quickly, hardly able to see the road in his fury.’
 ‘They then quickly sped off to the north to get out of the Ettin Hills.’
 ‘Then it sped out and moved around the room, here and there, leaving a zigzag of smoke behind.’
1.1
no object
(of a motorist or vehicle) travel at a speed that is greater than the legal limit.
ex:
 ‘the car that crashed was speeding’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘This includes drivers who have speeded more than once and received separate notifications.’
 ‘She practically speeded to Crystal's house, she had to vent her anger through someone.’
 ‘Robert speeded over to the hospital that Clara was just at and practically yelled at the nurses.’
 ‘Once in the town she speeded through Stars Road, then through Main Street.’
 ‘Louis Aguiar gave evidence at his trial admitting to accelerating quickly and speeding between 55 and 60 kph.’
 ‘They speeded out of Jake's neighborhood and on to the road that went into town.’
 ‘Her car, the emerald Audi compact, speeded down the street and disappeared.’
 ‘He speeded to Winona's house and frantically knocked on the door and rang the bell.’
 ‘Before Rebecca could say another word Cameron pulled her in and speeded down the road.’
 ‘I drove back to town quickly, but not speeding, and arrived at Hunter's family's new home, after he gave me directions.’
 ‘Gary jumped into the car and Louise threw herself in and they speeded across the town to the restaurant.’
 ‘As Chad speeded to his work on the opposite side of town, he went over the last few minutes again in his head.’
1.2
speed up
Move or work more quickly.
ex:
 ‘you force yourself to speed up because you don't want to keep others waiting’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Her heart seemed to stop for a second, but it quickly sped up, its beat pounding away in her ears.’
 ‘He felt his stomach drop to his feet and his heart sped up, this could not be happening!’
 ‘The heart rate speeds up in order to quickly provide the extra oxygen and nutrients your body will need.’
 ‘Then they sped up and Darren was forced to walk faster until he was eventually jogging.’
 ‘I called quickly in return, speeding up to follow him.’
 ‘I slowed the car down momentarily and sped up quickly after passing another light.’
 ‘I sped up and rattled the door handle quickly up and down, cursing it for not opening for me.’
 ‘Inching along head-lamp deep, the traffic moves again, speeding up when we reach the dry roads of the South Coast.’
 ‘The tape cut off as the limo sped up and accelerated below a triple underpass.’
 ‘He's blurry through my tears, and then the train speeds up and takes him away.’
1.3
with object
Cause to move or happen more quickly.
ex:
 ‘they sought to speed up decision-making’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Being already in the system speeds things up and simplifies the operation.’
 ‘It speeds things up for suspects, can eliminate them more quickly if they are innocent, and means witnesses are not in close proximity to the suspects as they can be under the old system.’
 ‘There have been calls from the opposition to bring in the army to speed things up and so on.’
 ‘We're most grateful for what has been done, but if there's any chance of speeding things up that would be great.’
 ‘Once again, sorry if I sped things up too quickly, but I can't change my desire to get this story finished.’
 ‘The technology is a key part of speeding things up.’
 ‘During World War II, considerable industrial production moved to the West Coast and after the war urbanization was sped up by housing subsidies and government investment in city infrastructure.’
 ‘Technology speeds things up, but it's consistent with what corporations and governments have been doing.’
 ‘It is not just about productivity, but predictability, speeding things up, making things flow smoothly.’
 ‘For months, they have argued they wanted to speed it up, so this woman has this trial very quickly.’
