==================================================
                       one                        
==================================================
[cardinal number] The lowest cardinal number; half of two; 1.
ex:
 ‘there's only room for one person’
ex:
 ‘two could live as cheaply as one’
ex:
 ‘one hundred miles’
ex:
 ‘a one-bedroom flat’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Place all the ingredients in a blender and whizz for approximately one minute until smooth.’
 ‘In the original wards there were six four-bed bays and six one-bed bays with lavatories at each end of the ward.’
 ‘The garden is enclosed with shrubs and has parking room for one car at the rear.’
 ‘Hathaway executed a will leaving each child one dollar and the remainder of his estate to his wife.’
 ‘Applicants with one or more years of university study were selected on the basis of their previous university performance.’
 ‘The antenna will protrude one metre from the barn roof and be one inch thick.’
 ‘We need families to open their hearts and to accept a child into the warmth of their family life for one month a year.’
 ‘I made good friends there and for one whole year we went out on the town after every class.’
 ‘It is also going to get rid of the 20 minute bays and make them available for one and two hour parking.’
 ‘The attack had a devastating effect on her life and she did not go out socialising again in the city for one and a half years.’
 ‘So the young people are asked to do a course for one day, well in advance of their marriage.’
 ‘Add the remaining ingredients, put a lid on the wok, and cook on high heat for one minute.’
 ‘Smith, who appeared in the dock of courtroom one, spoke only to confirm his name.’
 ‘It also has four primary schools and one high school, meaning good pupil to teacher ratios.’
 ‘If you're caffeine-sensitive, you may want to choose your tea based on the caffeine content in one cup.’
 ‘In 1952 there were over one million people involved in agriculture.’
 ‘Instead of putting one pair of socks on, try putting on two.’
 ‘A mother of four who caused a road crash which left a cyclist dead has been banned from driving for one year.’
 ‘She has already lost more than one stone after plenty of walking and changing her diet.’
 ‘We had to wait in line for one hour, and it was another hour before we got our food.’
 ‘Crimes and offences involving drugs in Orkney have more than doubled over a one year period.’
1.1
A single person or thing.
ex:
 ‘they would straggle home in ones and twos’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘You may bid by ones until you reach 60; bids above 60 must be multiples of 5 (65, 70, 75 etc.).’
 ‘He mostly takes people out in groups of ones and twos, and normally it's in a wide-open space.’
 ‘Organising on the job was difficult as it involved chasing up members in ones and twos and having to go back to the job if a member was off sick.’
 ‘Many of us tend to buy products in just ones or twos.’
 ‘When asked for comment the wholesaler said that their price for a single pen was high because they didn't want to sell them by ones.’
1.2
Just one as opposed to any more or to none at all; single (used for emphasis)
ex:
 ‘her one concern is to save her daughter’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘But in the end he lacked the sagacity or the low cunning to do the one thing necessary.’
 ‘So I struggled gamely on, feeling the shakes kicking in all over, the one thought in my mind ‘home!’’
 ‘I don't think there's one nursing home in York that can get to normal staffing levels.’
 ‘But now she is heading back to Oz and we met up for one last lunch to say our goodbyes.’
 ‘Limiting the field to one particular sanctuary would seem to be a promising alternative.’
 ‘Balwyn had possession from the end ball and there was time enough for one final shot.’
 ‘The variety of style is probably too wide for one person's taste, but the quality remains high.’
 ‘What is it that makes you decide that one person sounds more attractive than another?’
 ‘How is it possible for one person to get so much sleep and still feel tired?’
 ‘To top it all off, Chelsea then field a team with not one English player in its original line up.’
 ‘We only had one realistic offer since then and that was before Sandra was on the list.’
 ‘More of the speakers admit openly that drug smuggling was their one chance at something better.’
 ‘She's the one woman who can beat him at his own game of sexual one-upmanship.’
 ‘On the late shift this will cause a lot of problems, there is too much work for one person to do.’
 ‘There was only one small problem - Cole had no money and no idea how to start his own business.’
 ‘The one certainty about his retirement is that he intends to make a clean break from the sport.’
 ‘Having led a sheltered sort of life, I've only ever been out for one business lunch.’
 ‘The one truth about this career, like many others, is that initially you have to do the legwork.’
 ‘The one thing about living in a block of flats is not having to worry about the roof leaking.’
 ‘If I spend one night away from him I feel as if my right arm has been chopped off.’
1.3
Denoting a particular item of a pair or number of items.
ex:
 ‘electronics is one of his hobbies’
ex:
 ‘a glass tube closed at one end’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘One city in Alaska has 17 different air carriers.’
 ‘Look at one person, sing a syllable for a long time until the breath has gone, then move to the next.’
 ‘So one day, after she begged me, I took her to meet the band at one of their rehearsals.’
 ‘He appears not to have slept and is twitching slightly at one corner of his mouth.’
 ‘Hop on at Queen's pier and sail out for a few beers or supper at one of the waterfront restaurants.’
 ‘We will know more in a month but so far, the scientists are guessing the odds at one in a million.’
 ‘Keighley captained the Second XI for a while and was also in charge of the first team for one match.’
 ‘Even costly fuel has not stemmed the tide, and one new car in three is now diesel-powered.’
 ‘Police were today also examining two computers, one seized from each of the girl's houses.’
 ‘He was buried from the family house in Oban, which is at one end of town, beyond the station.’
 ‘Lack of investment, according to one former employee, has been going on for many years.’
 ‘We grabbed a drink at the bar before sitting at one of the lounge seats close to the entrance.’
 ‘Often you stop to watch one thing and another mini-drama crops up.’
 ‘Applying for one of these cards makes a great deal of sense, even if you don't need to borrow.’
 ‘His bike hit the pillar at one side of the entrance to the driveway and the pillar just collapsed on him.’
 ‘Either way, I felt that this was one important element of festival life that was lacking.’
 ‘Lil had one hand over her mouth and was sporadically clenching her eyes shut.’
 ‘The money was spent on posters for one of the wards and pain-relieving equipment.’
 ‘Instead, a temporary wall was put up at one end and a prefab hut was drafted in as church hall.’
 ‘You get one guy at one end of the room, another guy at the other end, get the audience in the middle and just go.’
 ‘More often than not, the bands we go to see in Manchester tend to be at one of the University venues.’
 ‘It is also not possible for one spouse to sell the marital home from underneath the other.’
1.4
Denoting a particular but unspecified occasion or period.
ex:
 ‘one afternoon in late October’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘There were also hopes at one stage that it might be used as part of the Imperial War Museum.’
 ‘He had friends of both sexes and at one time appeared to have a close woman friend.’
 ‘I woke up early one morning, feeling quite sick.’
 ‘A remarkable story of someone who at one stage was not given much chance of living.’
 ‘I puzzled over how best to build a box for her collection, and the idea finally came to me around 3 a.m. one night.’
 ‘His first victim was seized on the canal bank at Firgrove one June morning as she walked to work.’
 ‘We're thinking we might make our way to the sale on the other side of Guildford one weekend soon.’
 ‘Last year we had Broughton Road shut at one time or another for most of the year.’
 ‘It may even be possible that there were at one time plans for a spire, probably of timber.’
 ‘He looked pale and yawned several times, at one point cradling his head in his hands.’
 ‘He was at one time head of the private office of former Labour leader Neil Kinnock.’
 ‘On returning to his hotel one evening, he spied a cluster of moths fluttering about the shrub's small, yellow flowers.’
 ‘He was more than just a musician - and he was the best clarinettist in the world at one time.’
 ‘Since then he has had three heart bypasses and at one point was so sick he was given the last rites.’
 ‘He loved to talk to youngsters and at one stage he even asked me for a reference to get into church work.’
 ‘He told us of one summer, when a couple of older boys dropped by to visit his older brother.’
1.5
Used before a name to denote a person who is not known to the reader or hearer; a certain.
ex:
 ‘he worked as a clerk for one Mr Ming’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘You may have guessed by now that the striker I am referring to is one Dean Ashton.’
 ‘The first car to be registered in York belonged to one Mr Edwin Gray of Gray's Court, York.’
 ‘The drama follows the efforts of one Mrs Bennet to marry off her three daughters without any regard for the matter of true love in any such alliances.’
 ‘The hotel has a new man at the helm in the kitchens, one John Hogg from Scotland.’
1.6
North American 
informal 
A noteworthy example of (used for emphasis)
ex:
 ‘the actor was one smart-mouthed troublemaker’
ex:
 ‘he was one hell of a snappy dresser’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘As it is, well, they're one hell of a cult band.’
 ‘This is one fine looking and sounding DVD.’
 ‘It's gonna be one big party!’
 ‘She's one amazing gal.’
1.7
One year old.
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘I want to talk to my little girl who is going to be one today.’
1.8
One o'clock.
ex:
 ‘I'll be there at one’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘By one in the morning everything was quiet again and we went back to bed.’
 ‘At half past one on a weekday the restaurant was less than half full.’
 ‘I started the work at half ten on Sunday night and finished at one on Monday morning.’
 ‘He looked at the clock: one forty.’
1.9
A size of garment or other merchandise denoted by one.
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘She wasn't the tall skinny size one or the average size five that so many other girls on T.V. are.’
 ‘Candy dragged me into a shop, where she began sifting through a pile of skirts to find her size (a size one).’
1.10
A domino or dice with one spot.
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘It was a curious remark to make for one who dreamed of emulating Alexander the Great.’
[pronoun] Referring to a person or thing previously mentioned or easily identified.
ex:
 ‘her mood changed from one of moroseness to one of joy’
ex:
 ‘her best apron, the white one’
ex:
 ‘do you want one?’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘The standard of care to be expected of a GP who is on the obstetric list is thus different from one who is not.’
 ‘It was a decision I had to make for myself and my family, but it wasn't one that I made easily.’
 ‘However, branching out on your own can be a huge step to take, not to mention a risky one too.’
 ‘These are all rather fetching names, though few of them are ones it would have occurred to me to choose.’
 ‘Can you manage to stack things into a bag so that the most fragile items are on the bottom, and the heavy ones are on the top?’
 ‘The men all had Irish accents and one was referred to Jon Jon.’
 ‘Police said it is not yet possible to say whether the incident was linked to the previous ones.’
 ‘Three commercial purchasers were identified and one was ready to conclude the sale.’
 ‘You can easily tell the new scenes from the old ones, even if you've never seen the films before.’
 ‘This is a controversial point and one that foreign governments certainly overlook.’
 ‘As a result my time was not as quick as the one I had previously achieved this morning.’
 ‘All that's left now is to wish you and yours a very Merry Christmas and let's hope it's a white one!’
 ‘He pauses to pour himself another glass of white wine, but not before offering me one.’
 ‘I still have a jersey from 1995 but it's not that white anymore and it was time to get a new one.’
 ‘This was not really an issue of black and white but one of perceived notions of right and wrong.’
 ‘She knew she had the face of a teenager, and always hated being referred to as one.’
 ‘In the end, she found another apartment, at more than double the rent of her previous one.’
 ‘So how do you turn that feeling as the bank statement drops on your doormat from one of dread to joy?’
 ‘Even his jokes are the same ones he was telling when he set off on the campaign trail months ago.’
 ‘She had three rings on her right hand, all white metal, two with stones and one with a Celtic type band.’
