==================================================
                       full                       
==================================================
[adjective] Containing or holding as much or as many as possible; having no empty space.
ex:
 ‘waste bins full of rubbish’
ex:
 ‘she could only nod, for her mouth was full’
ex:
 ‘the hotel is full up’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Off he went this morning, laden with two huge bundles of magazines and a bag full of empty yoghurt pots.’
 ‘Our grey bin was only half full at the end of one week which theoretically means we will now only fill it once a fortnight.’
 ‘She was going to ride the same bus as us, but this one was too full, so she was placed on the second bus.’
 ‘Even if the stadium is only half full at 4pm next Sunday, Dublin's semi-final should go ahead.’
 ‘Shamed by his actions, Adam dropped his head as he poured himself a full glass of whisky.’
 ‘The supply truck tows a water trailer and carries full water cans for direct exchange.’
 ‘By the weekend it was a joy to see both churches almost full to capacity.’
 ‘When our tummies were well and truly full we went to do some more shopping.’
 ‘Angelique went to the room where the computer was and saw a carton full of empty beer bottles.’
 ‘Once your children realise that a full piggy bank represents money to spend or save, the meaning will sink in.’
 ‘The result will be more prisons full with thousands of young working class people.’
 ‘By the time I swung through the door, the room was nearly full.’
 ‘Lessons also will be offered in the winter term - good to know if your desired class is full this term.’
 ‘The weekly show became a hit, and the club was often full beyond the legal limit.’
 ‘With most of the city's hotels full, it meant a night in emergency accommodation.’
 ‘Although both flights were completely full, the level of service was quite satisfactory.’
 ‘Take one teaspoon of the solution from the bottle and put it into the pitcher full of water and leave it for thirty minutes.’
 ‘Casey blushed, her hands full, not being able to reciprocate, but grinning as much as her anyway.’
 ‘Be sure to keep your mouth too full to talk.’
 ‘The Opera House was far from full and yet the noise throughout the performance was quite amazing.’
1.1
Having eaten to one's limits or satisfaction.
ex:
 ‘she just ate till she was full up’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘It is believed that eating mainly high-GI foods leads to greater snacking since the body does not feel as full for long.’
 ‘But no matter how fattening, you just won't feel full at the end.’
 ‘She's full, and oh so satisfied, if only you could see the smile on her face.’
 ‘Overall we had a very good time even though we were absolutely full by the time they left.’
 ‘She was so full, so full she felt like she couldn't hold on, and she didn't know what to do.’
 ‘A warming, nourishing and satisfying dish that didn't leave me too full.’
 ‘The pair can only put up a token protest before they are full, warm, content and asleep.’
 ‘He patted his stomach again, sighed, and leaned backward, as if he were so full he could not sit up straight.’
 ‘Basically, people feel fuller after a protein-rich meal.’
 ‘How good one feels when one is full - how satisfied with ourselves and with the world!’
 ‘A high fibre meal gives the sensation of being quickly full and satisfied.’
 ‘Of course, we all had far too much to eat, and ended up flopped on the settee feeling full but satisfied for the rest of the night.’
 ‘There was plenty to fill us without adding extra vegetables and afterwards we were too full for dessert.’
1.2
full of
Containing or holding much or many; having a large number of.
ex:
 ‘his diary is full of entries about her’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘That usually meant that his head was full of empty worries and unrealistic plans.’
 ‘This actually has some cheese flavour and the egg custard is well made, but it's full of too many overpowering chives.’
 ‘We share a computer and have a small study that's full of my books but we share the space.’
 ‘These days, even the brief breathing space of the close season is full of tales of tragedies foretold.’
 ‘Before you buy a whole house full of polyester carpet, though, try to see a room with it.’
 ‘The grounds surrounding are full of discarded carrier bags containing rubbish thrown from cars as they pass.’
 ‘The whole area was full of tourists looking lost, families looking bored and yuppies looking drunk.’
 ‘They resume their association and suddenly the world is full of endless possibilities.’
 ‘The Brixton show was an empty one, full of teasing highs and promises that never quite materialised.’
 ‘There was a time when the future seemed to be full of limitless possibilities.’
 ‘Although I'm one of only two to have stayed put it feels like I'm in a whole new office full of familiar old faces.’
 ‘It was the happiest day of my life and my life has been full of happy moments.’
 ‘They are full of exquisite period details, from the accents to the frocks.’
 ‘However, most of them are empty while the arcades and sidewalks are full of motorcycles.’
 ‘I also find out that said house is decked out in assorted Victorian styles and is full of period features.’
 ‘It's now full of empty pages, but I'll outnumber them by written ones, just you wait and see just you wait.’
 ‘Lillesand is a beautiful little town full of wooden houses with white picket fences and gardens overflowing with roses.’
 ‘Turn a corner and we were faced with a whole street full of quite beautiful patisserie shops.’
 ‘There is no doubt that summer is one sexy season full of people shedding tensions and clothes.’
 ‘There is a whole fenced-off garden full of cats of varying sizes and colours up by the church.’
1.3
full of
Having a lot of (a particular quality)
ex:
 ‘she was full of confidence’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘The lower middle class in the towns now felt their individual lives to be full of possible danger and uncertainty.’
 ‘This makes for a happy learning environment and happy children full of life.’
 ‘Its a story of the French Revolution, and a period piece full of courtly intrigue and a love story.’
 ‘Stepping outside your comfort zone helps you confront your fears and show you that life's full of possibility.’
 ‘The Glitterati have managed to produce an album full of strength without overpowering you.’
 ‘This is an action - packed thriller, full of verve, violence, courage and fantastic imagery.’
 ‘The dancers in Trisha Brown's troupe are superb, full of talent and strength.’
 ‘Over the past few years the floodlit competitions for the younger age group were full of excitement.’
 ‘Conventions could be managed, but the party managers' mediation of these crowds was full of risk.’
 ‘Never in England had anything been so full of flavour.’
 ‘It seems to be a magical day full of hope and anticipation for the great future to come.’
 ‘Set near a nameless Korean village, the shots are full of poise and beauty.’
 ‘I feel full of energy, despite fighting off a cold, and have lost 3lbs in weight.’
 ‘At the top of the tree, a huge osprey nest that should have been full of life lay empty and deserted.’
 ‘I won't lie to you but the past two days have been packed full of wild danger and excitement.’
 ‘We left Chichi to its extraordinary mix of high religion and high commerce and returned to Antigua full of anticipation.’
 ‘The effect is a sharp contrast in time and space, full of humour or satire.’
 ‘Selby started the second half full of determination and were rewarded with a McDonald penalty kick to the corner.’
 ‘Being still so full of energy and excitement, I didn't understand the reason for her expression.’
 ‘He left behind him a long life full of achievement and plenty of friends.’
1.4
full of
Unable to stop talking or thinking about.
ex:
 ‘they had their photographs taken and he was full of it’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘She was full of it, spouting out a load of rubbish she probably read in The Sun.’
 ‘At the moment he's full of his various building schemes.’
1.5
full of
Filled with intense emotion.
ex:
 ‘his heart was full of hate’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘He stormed out of the room full of rage.’
 ‘This is music full of loathing, both for itself and for the audience.’
 ‘And then her heart was too full; she could not find any more words.’
 ‘There is nothing that pleases the Father more, than to see His children full of joy and thankfulness!’
 ‘That was many years ago, but to this day she is still full of guilt and shame.’
 ‘Her face was blank, but her eyes were full of heartbreak and anger.’
 ‘May your lives together be full of the joy that you bring to others.’
1.6
Involving many activities.
ex:
 ‘he lived a full life’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘When not on the slopes, she has been attacking school work and enjoying a full social life.’
 ‘The aim of BGWS is to encourage young people to fulfil their potential, by living full lives as active citizens.’
 ‘Your life can be rich and full because of the many ways you have of expressing your potentials.’
 ‘For David, revolutionary politics was just one part of a rich and full life.’
 ‘I knew I didn't want to palm my baby off with anyone who would babysit so I could continue with my full and hectic social life.’
 ‘His full schedule leads him around the world, partnering some of the most famous singers of our time.’
 ‘George led a full and rich life that has touched and brought joy to many of us.’
 ‘Here is a woman who has lived a rich and full life, but who has not given up her creativity.’
 ‘He believes the treatment will ultimately pay for itself in that it will help patients lead a fuller, more normal life.’
 ‘I just think it's important that he continue to feel useful and that we all do our best to ensure that he lives a full and productive life.’
 ‘Life there seemed so rich and full, and I was enjoying it all so much and on the way up, as it were, in my career.’
 ‘It's objective is to see that each person can live full and satisfied lives as equal citizens.’
 ‘I choose to believe that I will live as full a life as anybody else.’
 ‘Under the expert tutelage of former sailors, the young people had a very full programme indeed.’
 ‘It may be a busy life that Barb leads, but it's certainly a full and rich one as well.’
1.7
Scottish, NZ, Australian 
informal 
Drunk.
ex:
 ‘we were all pretty well full when the van rolled into Mittagong’
[adverb] Straight; directly.
ex:
 ‘she turned her head and looked full into his face’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘I took Eve in my arms and kissed him full on the lips.’
 ‘Erin cracked a smile and kissed him full on the lips.’
 ‘It was Brown who foiled the striker, spreading himself to take Beattie's shot full in the chest.’
 ‘Instead he planted it full in the solar plexus, lifting the man clear of the floor.’
 ‘Ariadne looked back at the Minotaur, with interest, and laughed ‘full in his face’.’
 ‘It was as if the angel of death had looked me full in the face - and then passed me by.’
 ‘Alex stopped his packing and looked the princess full in the face.’
 ‘His pillow missed Gary and hit Will full in the face.’
 ‘He had not been able to brake his car in time and had run full into him.’
 ‘And with that, he bent down and kissed me full on the lips.’
 ‘At the door she turned and looked him full in the eye, her strange dark gaze burning him to the core.’
[noun] The period, point, or state of the greatest fullness or strength.
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘It would be very easy, even in the full of your health, to fall off a bike and that's exactly what happened.’
 ‘So many of those who were killed in the attacks were right in the full of their lives.’
1.1
The state or time of full moon.
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘The moon is past the full, and she rises at nine.’
1.2
Irish 
The whole.
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘His mug was waiting by the stove. He poured himself the full of it and stirred in three spoons of sugar.’
 ‘He summoned the full of his eloquence in persuasion.’
[verb] Make (something) full; fill up.
ex:
 ‘he full up the house with bawling’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘While I was at the pump today, there was a bloke fulling up his Hummer.’
 ‘I am fulling up my tank every 2 weeks, and that's only letting it get down to the 1/2 mark.’
 ‘Shouldn't there be a simple html page for official announcements, instead of fulling up your forum database with useless posts?’
 ‘Once the ports are fulled up, any one trying to log on will get rejected with username and password.’
 ‘My Sundays for the next two weeks are fulled up too.’
 ‘At first, I was sick of fulling up buckets and pouring the water into the sink.’
 ‘The 24-27 dates turned out to be Memorial Day weekend & Reno is fulled up that weekend.’
 ‘Next thing, them going get up one morning and go to the seaside and want to full up the basket and empty the sea.’
[verb] Clean, shrink, and felt (cloth) by heat, pressure, and moisture.
ex:
 ‘weaving and fulling were all formerly part of the normal domestic scene’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘If used without fulling, the fabric will likely pill and shed fiber until it falls apart.’
 ‘These organic sources were supplemented by wind and water, which powered mills to grind corn or crush seeds, to power fulling mills in the woollen industry and bellows in iron furnaces.’
 ‘Felting and/or fulling require heat, agitation and/or alkalinity.’
 ‘Once the cloth had been fulled, it then underwent an operation called ‘raising’.’
 ‘Leading cloth-manufacturing centres such as Stamford and Lincoln were overtaken by a host of newer ones sited in villages and towns near fast-flowing streams and rivers that ran the fulling mills.’
 ‘New types of cloth, lighter woolens, for instance, and changes in style, or introduction of mechanized fulling might change the locus of textile industries for which women provided much of the by-labour.’
 ‘The site also bears signs of industrial activity in the medieval era and Mr Stone believed it could have been associated with dyeing and fulling.’
 ‘Cloth manufacture employed a large number of townsmen in its various stages (e.g. shearing, carding, combing, spinning, weaving, fulling, felting, dyeing, cutting).’
 ‘A grain mill until the Black Death, it was then converted to fulling, but rebuilt to handle grain at the beginning of the 15th century.’
 ‘The company expanded into Georgia, building two manufacturing plants in Dublin for weaving and fulling of wool.’
 ‘According to mill historian Martin Watts, the double mill is likely to have served a dual function, with one mill building used to grind corn and the other used for another purpose such as cloth fulling.’
 ‘Fingers, hands, and the washboard supply the pressure, a process called fulling, and the warm soapy water shrinks the fibers into a compact form.’
 ‘Note that if the piece is fulled excessively, the fabric will lose its desirable, flexible texture.’
 ‘On one town plan dating to 1610, an area north-west of the mill was known as Tenter Bank, and tenter frames were used for stretching cloth after it had been fulled and dyed.’
 ‘All of our hand-dyed wool is pre-felted or fulled and ready for use.’
 ‘Wool fabric could then also be fulled, a process which ‘thickened’ the cloth with fullers earth.’
 ‘The best of them all was surely broadcloth, which in the eighteenth century was a superfine grade of woolen cloth that was fulled, or shrunk, napped, and shorn so that it was the consistency of felt but with a smooth surface.’
 ‘I will describe the process that I used for fulling my woollen dyed material.’
 ‘Fast flowing water and raw materials such as wool and wood made Ambleside a natural home to industry such as fulling mills - mills which removed sheep oils from woven cloth corn, wool, flax and bobbin mills.’
 ‘In the later Middle Ages, power began to be applied to industry, notably to cloth manufacture, first in fulling, then to other processes.’
