==================================================
                       have                       
==================================================
[verb] Possess, own, or hold.
ex:
 ‘he had a new car and a boat’
ex:
 ‘have you got a job yet?’
ex:
 ‘I don't have that much money on me’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘I was about seventeen and a half now and I had my own flat, which was ok, but it was just a place to sleep for me.’
 ‘Somehow this usually results in us having more possessions than we started out with.’
 ‘Almost every household today has a computer.’
 ‘If you have enough clothes, a fine piece of art makes a beautiful Christmas gift.’
 ‘I know people who work in television but boast about not having a set at home.’
 ‘We have a one bedroom flat and on our current budget will not be able to move for another 2 years.’
 ‘In addition we must ensure that we retain our advantages of having a highly skilled and adaptable workforce.’
 ‘Football, even at youth level, should be about rewarding best practice and not just who has the most money.’
 ‘Sometimes it's as simple as earning more money, or having a better job.’
 ‘But if you don't keep an eye on the way things are going, then pretty soon you may not have a job to go to.’
 ‘He has the most money, but the people behind him do not understand how to use this power.’
 ‘My uncle works in a children's bookshop in London, and has a fantastic flat full of books of all types.’
 ‘They gave me a job for two years where I held the unique and enviable position of having the desk closest to the nearest pub.’
 ‘Perhaps it could be the place where I finally realise my dream of having an island of my own.’
 ‘Lucas was adamant about having a nice, reliable car for us to drive the baby around in.’
 ‘If I was offered the chance to have this as my company car I would be very happy indeed.’
 ‘He was advised to get an agent to help promote the salon, but he had little money.’
 ‘A friend of mine has a young dog that bit into a cable running to the passenger seatbelt.’
 ‘McLaren have the best package at the moment, but in Formula 1, it is not just about having the fastest car.’
 ‘No point having the dirtiest car in Lincolnshire if you go doing daft things like cleaning it.’
1.1
Possess (a quality, characteristic, or feature)
ex:
 ‘the ham had a sweet, smoky flavour’
ex:
 ‘she's got blue eyes’
ex:
 ‘the house has gas-fired central heating’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘He explained to me that every good villain has some outstanding feature that stood out about them.’
 ‘I thought he had a bit more sense, but no.’
 ‘We have showed we have the quality in the past and I'm sure we will get it right.’
 ‘I have known him as a player for a long time and have always rated him and believed he had leadership quality.’
 ‘He's a complete player, but he doesn't have the supreme quality of the very greatest.’
 ‘The new house had a back garden, 100 foot long and desperately overgrown.’
 ‘A new version of the model having such features is near completion and will be presented shortly.’
 ‘Beyond that, having breadth and depth in the management team is the key to success.’
 ‘The music has a cinematic quality which conjures up images of film noir classics.’
 ‘Maradona described him as having unparalleled speed and a keen sense of how to defend.’
 ‘The atmosphere is made up of a mechanical mixture of gases, which all have mass.’
 ‘Naive art has a quality of its own that is easy to recognize but hard to define.’
 ‘Yet credit is due to Kilmarnock for remaining resolute throughout and having the capacity to respond.’
 ‘It also boasts of having the world's highest rate of beautiful people per square inch!’
 ‘In addition, he has both the star quality we were looking for and is an inspired lyricist.’
 ‘A record collection can be displayed, and the display itself has an aesthetic quality.’
 ‘How they managed to walk up and down the street in shoes that had six inch soles was beyond us.’
 ‘This is a car that has much more to offer than its diminutive looking size belies.’
 ‘Aesthetically it is a dump and, but for the area around the harbour, has no redeeming features.’
 ‘He's got black hair and is tall with a lean body.’
1.2
have oneself
North American 
informal 
Provide or indulge oneself with (something)
ex:
 ‘he had himself two highballs’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘While you're having yourself a merry little Christmas, one of the songs you might often hear is a recent classic, a song whose author waited 20 years for the right student to put his music to words.’
 ‘A few weeks ago he was having himself a high old time at a fancy-dress party.’
 ‘America's retail sector is having itself a not so merry little Christmas.’
 ‘Kyra, have yourself a fantastic evening and I will talk to you tomorrow.’
 ‘I made a short post last night, at the time I was having myself a drink and feeling quite good.’
 ‘Whoever wins today's presidential runoff has themselves an enormous job, restoring hope and opportunity to a generation that has known only war.’
 ‘But I really don't want to get into this other than to say, right now, we have ourselves a messy problem.’
 ‘Anyway, now I'm starving, and I think I shall have myself a little snacky-snack.’
 ‘So it looks like our boy Bill has himself a brand new policy.’
 ‘Every year everyone would drive to the State Capitol, and we'd have ourselves a good ol'fashioned Donatin’ Day.’
 ‘You can't have yourself any coleslaw without slicing that head of cabbage into ribbons.’
 ‘The good doctor also has himself a solo career, and his latest song is called democracy, whisky, sexy, a phrase which many of you will recognize.’
 ‘Of course, SSRI withdrawal is just as dangerous as depression itself and if you take a depressed person and add a dash of withdrawal, you might have yourself a psychiatric emergency.’
 ‘If I had read that over the Internet back in the States, I would have assumed some Pentagon-friendly hack was having himself a little fun.’
 ‘This somewhat self-satisfied consensus that we're having ourselves a serious argument about the proper role of government gives the candidates - and the voters - too much credit, I think.’
 ‘Karolina says one way to deal with the jitters before she steps out onto the red carpet is to have herself a gut laugh and get it out of her system.’
1.3
Be made up of; comprise.
ex:
 ‘in 1989 the party had 10,000 members’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘My job has two parts: teaching an instrument privately and teaching classroom music theory.’
 ‘For example, we are accustomed to saying that the English language has many dialects.’
 ‘Their year is divided into 13 months, 12 of which have 30 days each; the 13th month has five days, or six if it is a leap year.’
 ‘This book, which has 17 chapters on many aspects of diabetes care, is mainly well written.’
 ‘The co-op currently has 1,000 members representing 635 households.’
1.4
Used to indicate a particular relationship.
ex:
 ‘he's got three children’
ex:
 ‘do you have a client named Peters?’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Penny now had playmates near at hand and there was always someone for me to talk to.’
 ‘He had no wife, no children, to enrich and complicate the simplicity of his daily life.’
 ‘He said that he always envisioned himself having a family, and now it might be too late.’
 ‘Although Sue thrives on all the noise and hustle and bustle of having such a large family she still enjoys a break.’
 ‘Parents Ray and Betty have nine children, three of whom farm with them.’
 ‘My mum and Glenda are about the same age and my mum, who never had a sister, was always close to Glenda.’
 ‘He has two brothers, Joe and Lawrence.’
 ‘John has got friends all over the world.’
 ‘We returned to find that a cousin of mine has a new son and there is a naming conference in progress.’
1.5
Be able to make use of (something available or at one's disposal)
ex:
 ‘how much time have I got for the presentation?’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘One of the beauties of an adult gap year is the range of choices you have available.’
 ‘We all pay for their upkeep through the various tax regimes and we all have a right to use and enjoy them.’
 ‘Tenants will have six weeks to respond and the council can amend its plan before the vote in April.’
 ‘This double booking does lead to many schools having a few places available but this takes time to be sorted out.’
 ‘Adoption is a personal choice, but in this case the parents have had no choice.’
 ‘The Council has six weeks to clean up its act or lose its licence to operate refuse wagons.’
 ‘Perhaps she also had fewer funds available due to the deflated stock market.’
 ‘It is a busy area and we don't want houses and ribbon developments, it is better to have a bit of open space.’
 ‘He gave a lengthy explanation about why he had no other choice but to veto the bill.’
 ‘The immense talent we have at our disposal is impressive to say the least.’
 ‘He knows the game so well and he had an almost free choice of which players he wanted to buy.’
 ‘He's now done it twice at Ascot, but normally in Hong Kong he would have six weeks between races.’
 ‘Does having a large disposable income guarantee good kitchen design?’
 ‘Bove notes that when parents walk in the door at the end of the day, having a few minutes to regroup can be crucial.’
 ‘He had a good exercise facility available for free to work out at.’
 ‘I only have four yuan a day to spend, three yuan for the bed space and one yuan for a bun.’
 ‘We had a really good choice of men who were willing to take part in the show.’
 ‘Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.’
 ‘You have to work for yourself in order to have the freedom to do what is required to make the money.’
 ‘He had his own family money to spend and he knew his modern purchases were infuriating his father.’
1.6
Have gained (a qualification)
ex:
 ‘he's got a BA in English’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘His human resources officer told him that some of his employees were functionally illiterate, despite having high school diplomas.’
 ‘Milner, who has ten GCSEs, was capped at England under-17 level, scoring in a tournament which included Brazil and Italy.’
 ‘She married Adam, who has a degree in criminal justice, in 1994.’
1.7
Possess as an intellectual attainment; know (a language or subject)
ex:
 ‘he knew Latin and Greek; I had only a little French’
[auxiliary verb] Used with a past participle to form the perfect, pluperfect, and future perfect tenses, and the conditional mood.
ex:
 ‘I have finished’
ex:
 ‘he had asked her’
ex:
 ‘she will have left by now’
ex:
 ‘I could have helped, had I known’
ex:
 ‘‘Have you seen him?’ ‘Yes, I have.’’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘He had been out wandering and came back to announce he had found the perfect restaurant for dinner.’
 ‘That I have had to get up at the crack of dawn the past two mornings has not helped my mood.’
 ‘The evening has put me in a reflective mood and has set me rereading my old blogs.’
 ‘Whoever would have thought that plain bricks and mortar could get so complicated?’
 ‘She was still in a bad mood about having lost the contest and been wrong at the same time.’
 ‘Tracy added she had always dreamed of being spotted and becoming a famous star.’
 ‘The applicant has consistently denied each and every allegation of misconduct.’
 ‘He was amazed to see that it was not a perfect sphere as he had been taught, but rough and mountainous.’
 ‘Nobody has ever seen anything like this.’
 ‘Many people who knew her as a young girl might have thought that she would make a mark as a singer.’
 ‘He didn't complain or spout off a resume of what he had accomplished.’
 ‘He has promised to finish the job but I said, don't worry about that and just get better.’
 ‘They are finally transformed into the opposite of the perfect family they had once aspired to be.’
 ‘Police have sent letters to persistent criminals warning them to give up crime or else.’
 ‘However, critics have by no means agreed on his virtues.’
 ‘Ms Kelly says a field next to the estate would have been perfect but it was sold to a golf course.’
 ‘We all sat down to a cooked breakfast together after the programme had finished.’
 ‘He realised Jacklin had probably been forewarned and had thought out his position.’
 ‘I would never destroy the perfect trust that had built up between us.’
 ‘This mood has not been lost on the hotel industry, which is all set to cash in on the season.’
[noun] People with plenty of money and possessions.
ex:
 ‘an increasing gap between the haves and have-nots’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘It can lead to bitter divisions and increase the psychological and social distance between the haves and the have nots.’
 ‘The gap between the haves and have nots - both between the United States and the developing world, and between the rich and the poor within the developing countries - was growing.’
 ‘The floods affected Jakarta residents indiscriminately, both the haves and the have nots.’
 ‘It is hardly surprising that strictly economic ideas often, but not always, favor the interests of the haves over the have-nots.’
 ‘John Edwards talked about two Americas divided by class, the haves and the have-nots.’
 ‘And the haves are the ones who give money and frequently have things they'd like to get done, and they do get done frequently.’
 ‘It also encourages the haves to donate 2.5 percent of their income to the poor.’
 ‘The gap between the haves and have-nots has widened to almost Third World dimensions over the past 30 years.’
 ‘As for the source of terrorism, there can be no doubt that it comes from the enormous gap between the haves and the have nots.’
 ‘But what came out of those years was an ever-wider gap between the incomes and experiences of the haves and the have-nots.’
 ‘Unlike Britain and other advanced countries, Indonesia is troubled by a wide gap between the haves and the poor, so school uniforms are necessary to avoid social envy in schools.’
 ‘In Poland, ghettoization increases between the winners of the market economy and the unemployed, between the haves and the have-nots.’
 ‘Like every other American city, Cincinnati in the 1990s has undergone a deepening class division between the haves and the have-nots.’
 ‘The obstacles to the large-scale reform of the United Nations may reside above all in the split between the rich North and the poor South, the haves and the have-nots.’
 ‘Though clearly a struggle of the have-nots versus the haves, characterizing these events as class conflict would not be entirely accurate, nor was that the basis on which authorities responded.’
 ‘When the haves remake a culture, the people who pay the price are the have-nots.’
 ‘It seems to me that mass consumerism creates the haves and have nots and in order to be ‘a have’ one must very consciously make a choice.’
 ‘We need an international effort that recognises the growing inequities between the haves and the have-nots of this world and then seeks to redress these imbalances.’
 ‘Society is in chaos, tainted with conflict and splits between the haves and have-nots, conservatives and progressives, and management and labor.’
 ‘They believe that the state's rulers serve the interests of the powerful against the weak and the haves against the have-nots.’
