==================================================
                       top                        
==================================================
[noun] The highest or uppermost point, part, or surface of something.
ex:
 ‘Doreen stood at the top of the stairs’
ex:
 ‘fill the cup almost to the top’
ex:
in combination ‘the springy turf of the clifftop’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Cut a cross in the top of each fig and press its shoulders with your fingers and thumbs so that it opens out like a flower.’
 ‘Leave the stock in a fridge or cool place, ideally overnight, so the stock turns to jelly and the fat sets hard on the top.’
 ‘Meanwhile, Sabrina was nearing the top of the stairs.’
 ‘The redhead was more composed, sitting cross-legged in a way that only just allowed the kilt to cover the tops of her thighs, hands in her lap to prevent me getting a better view.’
 ‘He had been shot in the top of the right thigh and the bullet was still in his leg.’
 ‘He kissed the top of her head and put his other arm around her.’
 ‘She made it to the top of the stairs and turned into a corridor and tapped on his door.’
 ‘Fill the moulds to just under the top, and bake for 7 to 8 minutes or until puffed up and springy to the touch.’
 ‘He tugged his hat down, covering the tops of his ears and his eyebrows.’
 ‘The two policemen positioned themselves at the top of an escalator, drew their batons and shouted at the fans to get back.’
 ‘I feel a few gentle taps on the top of my head, and look up to see a man looking down at me.’
 ‘Only a few healthy leaves will remain at the top of the plant until it eventually dies.’
 ‘One day he carried my little trike to the top of the stairs and told me it would be great fun if I rode it to the bottom.’
 ‘Although, it's getting noticeably warmer, the mountain tops are still covered in snow.’
 ‘Grill the bread on both sides and spread the top thickly with mustard.’
 ‘It was Ellen, standing at the top of the stairs with her arms crossed in front of her.’
 ‘He kissed the top of my head and ran his hand over my hair.’
 ‘By the time I reached the top of the hill the object had disappeared.’
 ‘No one spoke for a while until they reached the top of a hill.’
 ‘His eyes shot up to the tops of the trees and widened.’
1.1
usually tops
The leaves, stems, and shoots of a plant, especially those of a vegetable grown for its root.
ex:
 ‘some growers snip off the carrot's green tops in the field’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘All of the above aquatic plants grow with roots submerged and tops floating on the water, but some aquatics actually float, roots and all, like little boats.’
 ‘When the tops of the carrots grow thicker, thin them to about two to three inches apart.’
 ‘The light should always be kept two to three inches from the tops of the seedlings and they should be exposed for approximately 15 or more hours a day.’
 ‘Marijuana or marihuana is a drug obtained from the flowering tops, stems, and leaves of the hemp plant (cannabis sativa).’
 ‘Remove the tops of the beets and set aside to use in another dish.’
 ‘Harvest the bulbs when the tops fall over, and dry them off in the sun or a shed for at least a week before removing the tops.’
 ‘Roots are harvested in the fall when the tops have gone to seed and the plants have experienced a couple of hard frosts.’
 ‘The tops were planted where the sailors landed and by the late 1500s, pineapple was widespread in the tropics.’
 ‘Add mulch to control soil temperatures and insulate roots in winter; the tops may freeze.’
 ‘It is made from the leaves and flowering tops of the hemp plant, Cannabis sativa, which contains psychoactive substances called cannabinoids.’
 ‘Clematis prefer a neutral to slightly alkaline soil, so add lime if your soil is on the acidic side. Keep the roots shaded and the tops in sun.’
 ‘Be sure to pinch back the flowering tops of basil plants to keep them from going to seed too early in the season.’
 ‘To frill the ends, cut off the roots and all but about three inches of the green tops.’
 ‘Cut back perennials to within 8 to 10 inches of the ground after the tops die back or leave them uncut for protection against the cold.’
 ‘To prepare radishes for serving, wash them to remove any lingering dirt, and pinch or slice off the tops and any hairy roots.’
1.2
British 
The uppermost creamy layer of milk.
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Not only did I detest the smell, the skin that formed on the top of the milk almost made me physically sick.’
 ‘For my brother and me there was no greater treat than the top of the milk on our breakfast porridge.’
 ‘I think homogenisation was invented for people like me who hated the blob of cream on the top of the milk.’
 ‘Use a large spoon or dipper to take the cream from the top of the milk.’
[adjective] Highest in position, rank, or degree.
ex:
 ‘the top button of his shirt’
ex:
 ‘a top executive’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Overall, she was ranked in the top five in the country for goals and points per game.’
 ‘It is the first in a string of references that he makes to male icons, from top athletes to racing drivers, suggesting his ego has a lot to live up to.’
 ‘Why do my friends criticise me for doing up the top button of my shirt when I'm not wearing a tie?’
 ‘An artist who received a first-class degree from a top London art school is showing her work in a joint exhibition in York.’
 ‘The elevator came to a stop at the top floor and Anna turned to face the doors as they creaked open.’
 ‘Moorby, understandably given his team's position, wanted the top team to win straight promotion.’
 ‘The size of a country does not matter, given that five of the top companies ranked were from Switzerland.’
 ‘Also the people in top jobs tended to be male, senior doctors, politicians etc.’
 ‘They objected to the practice of government nominees obtaining top positions in industry and the professions.’
 ‘Early release is being re-examined by the Executive as a top priority.’
 ‘A senior official of a top company said IT firms were ready to face any situation.’
 ‘The top floor, which formed part of the upper flat, has three bedrooms.’
 ‘The county's ambulance service has been ranked among the top performers in the speed of its response to patients.’
 ‘I wouldn't go as far as to say I was appalled but I was glad we had one of the world's top referees in charge.’
 ‘Liam Kenney has his sights set firmly on the top step of the podium this weekend.’
 ‘He had a toothy smile, missing a top front tooth and a bottom tooth two from center.’
 ‘She has come a long way since winning her first British title at the age of 11 and is now ranked among the top eight in the country.’
 ‘By 1911, many of the top positions in the government were filled with his appointees and followers.’
 ‘Those in top positions tend to fear that statements made on television on the spur of the moment may land them in the dock.’
 ‘Independent Manchester Grammar School is used to ranking among the top schools in the country.’
 ‘Those in top positions in the workplace in the survey were classified as senior managers and professionals.’
[verb] Exceed (an amount, level, or number); be more than.
ex:
 ‘losses are expected to top £100 m this year’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘That amount topped the total of all venture investments in Missouri for 1999, also a record year.’
 ‘On the New York Stock Exchange, advancers topped decliners as 573 million shares changed hands.’
 ‘Still, even if reforms grind to a halt, the likelihood of unemployment topping its record level of 5.5% is growing.’
 ‘This will be the third such tournament promoted by Dixon, who has quit the circuit to concentrate on promoting and the previous years have attracted crowds topping 2,000.’
 ‘Western European production rose rapidly, and by 1950 it had topped the prewar level by 25 percent.’
 ‘At some points, the pursuit reached speeds topping 90 miles an hour.’
 ‘Global sales have now topped the two million mark and annual sales exceed 250,000 units, of which 40,000 are in Europe.’
 ‘The result topped Smith Barney Citigroup Research's forecast of US $240 million.’
 ‘Their findings, announced in several cities worldwide, highlight the planet's problems as the population tops six billion.’
 ‘And technology imports as a whole have inched up over the past three months, topping the year-ago level.’
 ‘The chancellor launched the 14-member commission last spring, after Germany's unemployment figure once again topped the four million mark.’
 ‘Quarterly figures, published yesterday, show that for the first time, discrimination claims on race grounds topped the number of gender discrimination claims.’
 ‘With the way the economy is going now, we hope to top those numbers but that remains to be seen.’
 ‘SMS messaging is the fastest-growing means of communication globally - with monthly volumes topping a billion.’
 ‘According to market research the European smartcard market is forecast to top one billion by 2004.’
 ‘In the third quarter, the number of unemployed topped the record level of 1991, when huge numbers of immigrants from the former Soviet Union came to Israel.’
 ‘But that figure is expected to have been topped.’
1.1
Be at the highest place or rank in (a list, poll, or league)
ex:
 ‘her debut album topped the charts for five weeks’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘The company topped the smoked cheese class at Nantwich, the largest cheese show in the UK, with extra mature cheese smoked by the Kirkwall firm of William Jolly.’
 ‘According to the newly formed coalition, topping the list of issues that we need to focus on is the protection of marriage.’
 ‘A new Daily Echo survey, which canvassed opinion across a wide cross-section of residents, reveals housing tops the list of local wishes by a mile.’
 ‘He topped the list in a recent opinion poll in which respondents were asked who was the least trusted political figure in the country.’
 ‘The veteran spinner topped the bowling averages with 47 wickets.’
 ‘As students heading off to university, education tops their list of concerns, but they agree many election issues don't appeal to people their age.’
 ‘Among those with more than 7000 test runs, he tops the averages along with Wally Hammond.’
 ‘The Rock of Cashel tops the list of the most popular historical landmarks in the country with more than 100,000 visitors annually.’
 ‘Mortgage repayments continue to top the list of financial worries for a third of the population.’
 ‘Quitting smoking tops the wish list for New Year resolutions and Swindon Primary Care Trust is working hard to help people turn their smoke-free dreams into a reality.’
 ‘Seafood tops the list in the must-be-eaten category.’
 ‘Right now, America's jobs crisis tops the list.’
 ‘He was elected an alderman of Limerick City Council in the 1999 local elections when he topped the poll with over 900 votes in Ward 3.’
 ‘The musician and businessman famed for his fundraising efforts topped a list of personalities in a poll commissioned to mark the coming Year of the Volunteer.’
 ‘Recent mainstream media polls show issues such as health and rural matters topping the list of public concerns about the performance of the government.’
 ‘He topped the recent list of Holyrood politicians for taxi bills, with a claim amounting to more than £11,000.’
 ‘Cliff Berry was the leading jockey with 80 wins and Donnie Von Hemel topped the trainers' leader board with 40 victories.’
 ‘Dogs that bark for lengthy periods topped the list, followed by people who play their music or television too loud, particularly at night.’
 ‘At the last European elections, he topped the poll, getting more than 130,000 votes.’
 ‘As an independent candidate she topped the poll in the 1999 local elections.’
 ‘It tops the list of the most beautiful and most dangerous places to live.’
 ‘Germany would still have won the championship trophy with 234 points and topped the medal count with a comfortable 22.’
 ‘Company chief executives topped the table in both years, reflecting their undiminished earning power under New Labour.’
1.2
Be taller than.
ex:
 ‘he topped her by several inches’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Cyril was a tall man, easily topping Johen's height by a head or more, and he had passed that height on to his son Martin.’
1.3
Surpass (a person or previous achievement); outdo.
ex:
 ‘he was baffled as to how he could top his past work’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Dale Hodges topped his colleagues by squirrelling away $54,721 for a future campaign.’
 ‘The question of how Rafa Benitez can ever top this achievement can be left for another day.’
 ‘Jim of Automotive News narrowly topped Anthony Rowley of the Singapore Business Times in a close race.’
 ‘British officials are no doubt wondering how they can possibly top the spectacle of Beijing when London hosts the Summer Games in 2012.’
 ‘The landlord, Mick, is always coming up with wacky ideas so we thought we would top him for a change.’
 ‘And in consumer goods, the Chinese have topped Americans in purchases of refrigerators, televisions and cell phones.’
 ‘There are some examples of child actors who manage to stay in movies as adults, sometimes even topping their early achievements.’
 ‘That was the manner in which Emma Duggleby topped her own ladies' course record during Jean Mackenzie's lady captain's day at Malton and Norton.’
 ‘The vegetables topped even that, bursting with flavour, having been chargrilled and marinated in olive oil.’
 ‘Lisa could only manage a total of 216 kilograms, a lift that topped her silver medal performance at Athens last year.’
 ‘I never wish to hear it sung again, as that performance can never be topped.’
 ‘Nothing will top the show I saw in Santiago!’
 ‘He is by far the most sublime player in the world today, despite his semi-final loss in the Australian Open, but topping Pete Sampras's silver collection is a long way off.’
 ‘And now, again in election mode, he has topped even this performance.’
 ‘And yet it's also just a part of a pleasurable little scene between two performers intent on topping one another with their jokes and gags.’
 ‘In this case it's difficult to see how he can top today's performance.’
 ‘There's no worse place on earth for quicksand and nobody can top my men for sand rescue.’
1.4
Appear as the chief performer or attraction at.
ex:
 ‘Hopper topped a great night of boxing’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Sting, who is to receive an honour for his outstanding contribution to music, will top the show, which is to be presented by a male-female double-act for the first time since 1990.’
 ‘A breathtaking laser show with golden, yellow, green, and blue beams in various formations and a burst of fireworks topped the show as four acrobats glided down to the pitch from the top of the stadium carrying the banners of the eight teams that will clash in the inaugural twenty20 league.’
 ‘Veteran rockers Queen, along with Razorlight and Simple Minds, will top the entertainment line-up.’
 ‘While Ignatov topped the show, perhaps Airjazz stole it.’
[adverb] At the most.
ex:
 ‘some civil servant earning twenty-eight thousand a year, tops’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘I slept for maybe three hours tops.’
 ‘These are simple enough to prepare in 25 minutes tops, giving busy cooks a welcome break from the kitchen.’
[noun] A conical, spherical, or pear-shaped toy that with a quick or vigorous twist may be set to spin.
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘But the tops are useless without a launcher, costing another £3.99, which spins the tops into each other at high speed.’
 ‘We liked hurling tops and see them spin, jump and hiss.’
 ‘Favourites from Victorian times, including building blocks, spinning tops and toy prams and dolls, are also on view.’
 ‘Louise is also hoping to branch out and offer party bags, ice-cream tubs in the summer and traditional toys, such as yo-yos and spinning tops.’
 ‘The quarks, in essence, spin like tops, as do the neutrons and protons themselves.’
 ‘I was worried and wondered what he had experienced when the angels spun him like a top.’
 ‘He had fallen in love, Mary's beauty and her assent to his affections spinning him like a top.’
 ‘Kids are bound to fall in love with the tiny magic tops, which turn around after starting to spin, spinning tops with strings and toothpicks with colourful, painted heads.’
 ‘Bedi spun it like a top, the ball occasionally taking a divot out of the wet mud that passed for a wicket.’
 ‘Boys play marbles, spin tops, fly kites, and play such games as kabaddi (team wrestling).’
 ‘Their defensemen were getting spun like tops by the great one-on-one talent at the World Cup.’
 ‘Then, after the war, increasing affluence brought more toys for children - tin soldiers, tops, and dolls made of an exciting new material called plastic.’
 ‘There are carefree drawings from the early 1950s in which women spin like tops, or lounge like courtesans.’
 ‘Gabriel tugged and tugged at me until I was running alongside him; he was cackling like a drunken fool, and he grabbed both my hands and spun us around like tops.’
 ‘Another offering is from toy giant Hasbro with spinning tops made of five parts known as ‘Beyblades’.’
 ‘They bounced off another outcrop and spun like tops down the scree below.’
 ‘Another guest describes a patient who thought he was a spinning top, or teetotum, and liked to spin around, at which the guest prepares to demonstrate before being interrupted by another table guest who whispers into his ear.’
 ‘Instead he stuck to cars, drawing trees or spinning things, like tops.’
 ‘Then they flew down the circular steps so fast that their little bodies were still spinning like tops as they swirled out the front door and into the yard.’
 ‘Atoms have spin; replace the tops with atoms and now you're imagining a basic quantum computer!’
[abbreviation] Tongan pa'anga.
