                      school                      
==================================================
[noun] An institution for educating children.
ex:
 ‘Ryder's children did not go to school at all’
ex:
as modifier ‘school books’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Many of these children are not in school, and many others are in schools of extremely low quality.’
 ‘The diabetic nurse visited the school to educate firstly the teachers and secondly the classmates.’
 ‘The running of a school relies on discipline and for any student to be querying instructions given to him is completely unacceptable.’
 ‘She was no longer at school only because the school in her district stopped at age ten.’
 ‘Typically, in bilingual schools in Mexico, instruction is predominantly or exclusively in Spanish.’
 ‘For example, there was more corporal discipline in all the schools back then, less medical care for the average family, poorer housing in general and so on.’
 ‘At school, if your teacher had told the class that one kid was going to be famous, how many kids would have said it would be you?’
 ‘At school he excelled at all sports, becoming captain of athletics and representing his school in the public schools championships.’
 ‘In school, I learned many wondrous things about science that amazed me.’
 ‘Parents with children in school were identified from fifty schools chosen randomly from school lists at the state Ministry of Education.’
 ‘In it he argued that instruction in Catholic schools could be like that in the lycées, whose curriculum was grounded in that of the Jesuits.’
 ‘Students in schools with harsh discipline, such as zero-tolerance policies, reported lower school connectedness.’
 ‘At school, the most she ever spoke was to the teacher, and that was rarely ever.’
 ‘At school after playtime, the teacher asked the kids what they had been doing.’
 ‘English is the language of business, religion, and tourism and is the medium of instruction in schools.’
 ‘The President's talk about accountability is tied to the idea that schools should be run more like businesses.’
 ‘English is the primary language of instruction in schools, and by the secondary level all students can read and write in basic English.’
 ‘When I was in school, I used to do impressions of my friends at school and stuff like that.’
 ‘In school, one of these many boundaries will be the legitimacy of academic knowledge.’
 ‘English is the language of instruction in secondary schools and institutions of higher learning.’
1.1
The buildings used by a school.
ex:
 ‘the cost of building a new school’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘They found rates 50 per cent higher than levels established for American schools and public buildings.’
 ‘Delayed maintenance or insufficient maintenance are also associated with moisture problems in schools and large buildings.’
 ‘It looks at facilities like schools, office buildings and factories, and the chemicals likely to be in them.’
 ‘The school consists of three buildings in a horseshoe layout with each building having three stories.’
 ‘We didn't begin with a project for a house or a school or an office building.’
 ‘This will make the building of new schools necessary - an additional cost.’
 ‘He huffed, as he crossed his arms, and leaned against the brick building of their school.’
 ‘The company also put men to work guarding the sanctuary against poachers and building schools for the children to meet another local need.’
 ‘Her house is four blocks from her office, and she can drop off her kids at school before work, because their schools are less than a mile away.’
 ‘Many homes and other buildings such as schools and offices have high levels of radon.’
 ‘I asked him how the villages paid for their half of building and supporting a school.’
 ‘The government is trying to alleviate this problem by building accessible schools in rural areas.’
 ‘Sales should generate $1 million, half of which will go toward building 20 new schools in Cambodia.’
 ‘Rekka also noticed in the flash of lighting that the building was the school.’
 ‘When the building was a school - a quarter of a century ago - there were probably fewer houses in this corner of the village.’
 ‘But when they approached the concerned officials they were told that money cannot be given for linking roads but money could be given for building schools.’
 ‘Posters and other displays were also placed throughout the school to educate students.’
 ‘He also points out that although schools must meet the building code standards for air quality, that doesn't necessarily mean today's codes.’
 ‘They accomplish real stuff, like building schools in Guatemala.’
 ‘Let's stop wasting money and put it to better use building schools, hospitals and productive enterprises that will lift our people out of degrading poverty.’
1.2
treated as plural
The pupils and staff of a school.
ex:
 ‘the head addressed the whole school’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘There is not one girl in this whole school except you that would dare ignore the jocks.’
 ‘I'm the one with all the inside info on every single student in the whole pathetic school.’
 ‘The movie follows three schools into a ballroom dancing competition.’
 ‘She had also been the only sixth grade cheerleader during the past school year, of the whole school.’
 ‘For the rest of that school year, she turned the whole school against me.’
 ‘To top it all off, he was on of the most well-known seniors in the whole school.’
 ‘What if the whole entire school catches it and falls into horrible states mentally and physically?’
 ‘The entire school shared this lavatory and it had a dozen shower stalls for use.’
 ‘To be rude, I hate the nurse more then any teacher in the whole entire school.’
 ‘The whole damn school is going to watch me make a fool of myself.’
1.3
mass noun
A day's work at school.
ex:
 ‘school started at 7 a.m’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘The bell rang signalling the end of school and pupils rushed from the front exit out into the street.’
[verb] Send to school; educate.
ex:
 ‘Taverier was born in Paris and schooled in Lyon’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Fifteen or 20 years ago I could protect my children from the excesses of consumerism and materialism by schooling them at home and putting the TV in the closet.’
 ‘So, potential migrants are schooled to New Zealand standards, while imbibing Kiwi culture for several years - and all the while forking over hefty sums.’
 ‘Australians shared the same language, relied on British news for knowledge of the world, and were schooled in an education system which sustained British loyalties.’
 ‘He speaks great English, in fact, was schooled in the United States.’
1.1
Train or discipline (someone) in a particular skill or activity.
ex:
 ‘he schooled her in horsemanship’
ex:
 ‘it's important to school yourself to be good at exams’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘She had been schooled in what to do in the event this should happen.’
 ‘The more understanding your IT copywriter brings to the relationship, the less time you'll spend schooling them.’
 ‘Tracey briefly considered not schooling the newcomer to the strangeness of her boss, but it wasn't like she was degrading his supervisor.’
 ‘Unfortunately, they need to be schooled a little themselves on this release.’
 ‘In addition, Sasha was also schooling the thunder demon in the arts of speech: the spell with the metal disks was beginning to wear off.’
 ‘Faculties who taught agriculture leadership courses were schooled in traditional agricultural education that consisted of educational methods and technology.’
 ‘Others are schooling themselves on the new legislative landscape not just to gain a marketing advantage but out of necessity.’
 ‘He pointed out that it is now schooling its programmers in security.’
 ‘We should not ordinarily let ourselves be schooled by terrorists.’
 ‘Even so, climbers should be schooled in basic rock climbing and comfortable with jumaring and rappelling.’
 ‘But it was Gillespie who formed the early bands, organized the tours and schooled young acolytes in the odd, syncopated rhythms and lightning-fast runs that were trademarks of the new style.’
 ‘In her disguise as the boy Ganymede, Rosalind is able to promise Orlando a cure for lovesickness and also schools him in the art of love!’
 ‘Geragos has schooled him and prepared him very well.’
 ‘They had long schooled themselves in efforts to overthrow bourgeois convention.’
 ‘But most college administrators are not schooled in these new identity linguistics.’
 ‘They're really trying to drill you to see if you're schooled in Internet economics.’
 ‘In 1999, Dorsey started schooling herself about money management.’
 ‘He also has a treasure trove of beer facts and information to school anyone on the secrets of the suds.’
 ‘And now, after many fruitful years of schooling myself to avoid formulations about function, I am returning to them.’
 ‘In 1958, he got schooled by the locals on epic high-altitude climbs.’
[adjective] (of a Xhosa) educated and westernized.
ex:
 ‘economic considerations persuaded many Xhosa not to become school by opting for a Western lifestyle’
1.1
(of a name) of Western origin.
ex:
 ‘it embarrasses me to be called by the school name I was given at church’
[noun] A large group of fish or sea mammals.
ex:
 ‘a school of dolphins’
MORE EXAMPLES
 ‘Shy leaves hide under their brethren as the icy chill dives and chases each one like a predator feasting on a school of fish.’
 ‘All he saw was lots of blue water, and an occasional school of fish here and there.’
 ‘At the river's edge, a school of small, dark fish darts away as a shadow crosses the water.’
 ‘A school of males is far more boisterous, and the most dangerous to encounter.’
 ‘After finally loading up the ship with enough equipment to haul in a school of Chilean sea bass we set sail.’
 ‘The thought of coral reefs conjures images of brightly coloured shoals and huge schools of exotic fish.’
 ‘Sean shrieked at a school of drowsing fish who promptly scattered to deeper waters.’
 ‘The stones at the bottom were covered in green and brown slime and a school of small fish swam past them, startled.’
 ‘A school of porpoises came alongside the boat for a visit.’
 ‘A bird helps the old man locate a large albacore tuna, which is a straggler from a larger school of fish.’
 ‘She saw a school of orange and yellow fish swim past her; Joanna felt elated and blissful.’
 ‘Inside her cluttered mind memories swam like a skittish school of fish.’
 ‘He saw ‘some small fish to skip, and play upon the surface of the water’ which turned out to be a school of pilchards.’
 ‘Because of the blaring white light, it seemed to shimmer like a school of fish on a sunny day.’
 ‘It didn't take long for the fools to scatter out like a crazy school of fish.’
 ‘A school of menominee swam by and I tried to drop the spear on them but they moved out of its way.’
 ‘The water was so clear that a school of fish could be seen swimming against the current, upriver.’
 ‘The two men stood for a bit more at the railing and watched as a school of dolphins raced parallel to the moving freighter.’
 ‘Obedience to the instincts of its kind is also helpful, as when an entire school of fish moves as one to avoid disaster.’
 ‘The area was swarming with people the way a school of fish in a net would flop about.’
[verb] (of fish or sea mammals) form a large group.
ex:
 ‘grey snapper schooled in shallow lagoons’
